# AWS S3 (Simple Storage Service)

**AWS S3 (Simple Storage Service)** is a comprehensive, scalable, and high-speed web-based cloud storage service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). It is primarily utilized for the online backup and archiving of data and applications hosted on AWS.

```ts
import { Bucket } from "sst/constructs";

new Bucket(stack, "Bucket");
```

[SST docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html)
#### Key Features

- **Durability and Availability**: Ensures high data durability and availability, securely storing data across multiple physical locations.
- **Scalability**: Capable of scaling to accommodate virtually unlimited amounts of data, ranging from small files to extensive datasets.
- **Security**: Provides advanced security features, including sophisticated access control mechanisms and options for encrypting data both in transit and at rest.
- **Data Management Tools**: Offers a suite of tools for efficient data lifecycle management, including automated archival and deletion policies.

#### When to Use AWS S3

- **Data Storage and Backup**: Ideal for storing and backing up any type of digital content, including website assets, media files, and database backups.
- **Application Hosting**: Can be used to host static websites and provide a backend for applications that need to store and retrieve large volumes of data.
- **Big Data Storage**: Suitable for storing large datasets used in big data analytics and machine learning applications.
- **Content Distribution**: Works effectively as a content distribution network (CDN) when integrated with Amazon CloudFront, allowing for efficient global distribution of content.
- **Disaster Recovery**: An excellent choice for disaster recovery solutions due to its high durability and availability.

AWS S3 is a versatile storage solution that can be used in a wide range of scenarios, from simple file storage to complex big data analytics and application hosting. Its scalability, security features, and comprehensive set of tools make it a go-to choice for businesses and developers looking for a reliable cloud storage service.


[AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/GetStartedWithS3.html)
